README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# xplrrr

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

### Overview

`xplrrr` is an R package to make explatory data analysis (EDA) simple and seamless. EDA is a crucial phase of the data science workflow as it allows us get a fist glimpse of the data. It is important to identify statistical characteristics of the data so that researchers can properly set up the rest of the analysis. This package will provide the tools required to conduct a thorough EDA.


### Installation:

Once the package is approved and released to CRAN, you will be able to install it like this:
[CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

``` r
install.packages("xplrrr")
```

For now, install the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("UBC-MDS/xplrrr")
```

### Functions:

- `explore_summary` will display a table with basic summary statistics and wholistic information about the data including column names for both categorical and numerical columns.  
- `explore_feature_map` will generate a faceted plot on pairwise feature relationships and correlations as well as individual feature distributions.
- `explore_outliers` will provide a thorough method of identifying outliers in the data based on standard deviation.
- `explore_missing` will show exactly where there is missing data and how much data is missing.

### Example:

This is a basic example which shows you how to solve a common problem:

``` r
library(xplrrr)

explore_summary(my_df)
explore_feature_map(my_df)
explore_outliers(my_df)
explore_missing(my_df, num_rows = 1, type = "location")

```

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UBC-MDS/pyxplr/master/imgs/feature_map.png)

### R Ecosystem

This R package will build using the [`tidyverse`](https://www.tidyverse.org/) ecosystem that will help first time data science users more easily get started with their data projects. A similar package, [`DataExplorer`](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/DataExplorer/vignettes/dataexplorer-intro.html) is another EDA tool available. There are not many EDA packages that exist because the `tidyverse` ecosystem allows full control of data wrangling and visualization, however users who are not experts with these packages will find `xplrrr` very useful.

### Dependencies

- `ggplot2`
- `tidyverse`
- `gridExtra`
- `testthat`
- `matrixStats`

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Every little bit
helps, and credit will always be given. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for further details.

### Contributors

Name     | Github ID
------- | -------
Braden Tam   | bradentam
Furqan Khan  | fkhan72
Serhiy Pokrovskyy | pokrovskyy
Yu Fang | lori94

For the complete list of project contributors, see [CONTRIBUTORS.md](CONTRIBUTORS.md)

Commit message:

Added badges and documentation link to README

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# xplrrr

<!-- badges: start -->
![Release](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/xplrrr/workflows/release/badge.svg) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/UBC-MDS/xplrrr/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/UBC-MDS/xplrrr)
<!-- badges: end -->

### Overview

`xplrrr` is an R package to make exploratory data analysis (EDA) simple and seamless. EDA is a crucial phase of the data science workflow as it allows us get a fist glimpse of the data. It is important to identify statistical characteristics of the data so that researchers can properly set up the rest of the analysis. This package will provide the tools required to conduct a thorough EDA.


### Installation:

Once the package is approved and released to CRAN, you will be able to install it like this:
[CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

``` r
install.packages("xplrrr")
```

For now, install the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("UBC-MDS/xplrrr")
```

### Functions:

- `explore_summary` will display a table with basic summary statistics and wholistic information about the data including column names for both categorical and numerical columns.  
- `explore_feature_map` will generate a faceted plot on pairwise feature relationships and correlations as well as individual feature distributions.
- `explore_outliers` will provide a thorough method of identifying outliers in the data based on standard deviation.
- `explore_missing` will show exactly where there is missing data and how much data is missing.

### Example:

This is a basic example which shows you how to solve a common problem:

``` r
library(xplrrr)

explore_summary(my_df)
explore_feature_map(my_df)
explore_outliers(my_df)
explore_missing(my_df, num_rows = 1, type = "location")

```

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UBC-MDS/pyxplr/master/imgs/feature_map.png)

### R Ecosystem

This R package is built using the [`tidyverse`](https://www.tidyverse.org/) ecosystem that will help first time data science users more easily get started with their data projects. A similar package, [`DataExplorer`](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/DataExplorer/vignettes/dataexplorer-intro.html) is another EDA tool available. There are not many EDA packages that exist because the `tidyverse` ecosystem allows full control of data wrangling and visualization, however users who are not experts with these packages will find `xplrrr` very useful.

### Dependencies

- `ggplot2`
- `tidyverse`
- `gridExtra`
- `testthat`
- `matrixStats`

## Documentation

Please find up-to-date official documentation at https://ubc-mds.github.io/xplrrr

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Every little bit
helps, and credit will always be given. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for further details.

### Contributors

Name     | Github ID
------- | -------
Braden Tam   | bradentam
Furqan Khan  | fkhan72
Serhiy Pokrovskyy | pokrovskyy
Yu Fang | lori94

For the complete list of project contributors, see [CONTRIBUTORS.md](CONTRIBUTORS.md)
